My daily update. #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: I found no interesting news from this area, it is status quo. There is ongoing fighting in Tsupivka (1), Velyka Prokhody (2), Ternova (3), and Rubizhne (4). There is heavy artillery all throughout the area, and there are a lot of casualties. Today a video emerged of Ukrainians destroying two Russian armored vehicles near Male Vesele (to the west of Ternova) using Brimstone missiles, which are advanced missiles from the United Kingdom. Russia is firing artillery into the city of Kharkiv to destroy civilian infrastructure. Just south of the view of this image Russian artillery started a large forest fire.

The Izyum area: Ukraine is pushing north and east at a rate of around 500 meters per day (5a,5b,5c). Near 5a I updated the Ukrainian front line based upon a geolocated photograph. Russia fought their way into Dolyna (6) and the town is now contested. Ukraine hammered the Russian advance with artillery and two air strikes, although the extent of the damage is still being assessed. Russia is trying to push through the forest south of Pasika in the direction of Bohorodychne (7), but they are still stuck in the forest. North of Bohorodychne there is still fighting on the Russian side of the Siverskyi Donets river (I forgot to label it, halfway between 7 and 8), but I do not believe Ukraine will hold this position for long. Russia claims to have crossed the river into Tetyanivka (8) and Pryshyb (9) but I do not see evidence of this being true. Russia has claimed to have controlled Pryshyb for probably a week or more at this point so I take it with a grain of salt. However, I do not expect Ukraine to mount a strong defense in this area, preferring to defend positions a few km south closer to Sydorove. There is ongoing fighting near Raihorodok (10) without notable changes.

The Sievierodonetsk area: I will not say much about the battle inside of the city (11), it is brutal and both sides are taking high casualties. There is a huge amount of artillery used on both sides, a lot of mortar fire, and brutal street fighting. Russia captured Metolkine (12) and there there is ongoing fighting around the area of the airport (13). Russia is trying to push through Ustynivka (14) and Toshkivka (15) but they have not been able to take significant ground. They have been fighting for Toshkivka since at least April 26th and they have taken extremely high casualties. Russia is throwing everything they have to take Zolote (16), using combined power of artillery, air power, armor, and infantry. They have made minimal progress. Russia has, yes again, claimed to capture Komyshuvakha (17) even though they control maybe 2/3 of the town at this point. Russia has taken extremely high losses, including large numbers of Kadyrovites including a Kadyrov lieutenant colonel who was personal friends with Kadyrov. Russia desperately wants to capture this town, and they still haven't. No matter how much propaganda they publish to the contrary. There is ongoing fighting near Mykolaivka (18), which Russia also desperately wants. A few days ago Russia lost a general to artillery fire while assaulting this town. Today Russia threw a ton of air strikes and artillery fire into Bilohorivka, Nahirne, and Berestove (19) and tried to assault the area, but the attack was repelled. Yesterday I commented  that Russia may have captured Pylypchatyne but I did not see confirmation. It appears confirmed, and Russia is now attacking Pokrovske with renewed vigor (20). Earlier this morning Ukrainian artillery hit what appears to be a Wagner Group HQ in Kadiivka (21). Reportedly up to 300 Wagner mercinary terrorists died in the attack.

The Donetsk area: Russia successfully attacked Roty (22). I do not know the extent of the success, so I updated the map giving them control over a chunk of the town. I hope to find more information tomorrow. There is ongoing fighting near Novoluhanske (23), but I do not see any evidence of success. Today, I found evidence that Ukraine fired a significant amount of artillery into the Horlivka area, as you can see by the blue artillery markers. Reportedly, ammo caches were targeted. In recent days I have also seen reports that Russia has pulled much of their artillery out of the Donetsk and Horlivka area to push them north towards Popasna. Keep in mind that there are three different users of artillery in the Russian military: the Russian Federation, the DPR, and the LPR. When I say Russian withdrew artillery, I mean just the Russian Federation artillery, not the DPR and LPR. Granted, all of them are the Russian military. You could think of it as different branches of the military, perhaps.

The Zaporizhzhia area: This area is mostly an artillery duel. I have heard that Ukraine is slowly moving south, but I have not seen proof so I cannot update the map. Russia is pushing reinforcements into Tokmak (24) and Vasylivka (25). These are mostly low quality troops who will likely be incapable of attack and are only meant to hold the line in defense. These troops are armed with things like T-62 tanks and BMP-1, which are both obsolete vehicles. They are building trenches, bunkers, and defenses and are primarily relying on artillery fire to deter Ukrainian offensive pushes. Ukraine does not have enough long range weapons to make any sort of breakthrough to attack through this region, although reportedly they have been slowly destroying Russian artillery with the very limited long range artillery they do possess.

The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: I do not have much to say here, I am mostly just posting my current map. To be hoinest, I find it very difficult to find reliable information from this area. I have heard that Ukraine is building forces near Snihurivka (26) and I saw a video of Ukrainian artillery destroying entrenched Russian vehicles (27). That's all I got from this area.

Other news: Today the DPR sentenced three foreign born Ukrainian POWs to death for being "mercinaries." I want to state a few things about this. First, the DPR is a fake country invented by Putin in order to spread terrorism. Second, the DPR doesn't have laws concerning these issues, if they even have law at all. Third, the court that sentenced these men is a fake court, and the trial was a sham. Fourth, the death penalty is illegal in Russia, which is why they had to use a fake court in a fake country to perform the fake trial. This action is a total rejection of the rule of law and basic human decency. These three men did nothing but protect their country from an invading force bent on genocide.