My daily update. #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to see the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: The situation hasn't changed, and it remains status quo. There is fighting Tsupivka (1), Velyki Prokhody (2), Ternova (3), and Rubizhne (4). There is heavy artillery fire raining on every Ukrainian position in the area, and Russia has called in air strikes on the Ukrainian forces near Ternova and Rubizhne. I am not totally sure who controls Rubizhne at the moment or if it is contested. My more reliable sources claim it is in Russian control and they are pushing south and west from that position. My less reliable sources claim the town is contested.

The Izyum area: Ukrainian forces are slowly pushing north and east towards Izyum at a pace of around 500 meters per day (5a,5b,5c). The Russians tried to attack towards Virnopilla (6) and in the general fascinity of Brazhkivka (7) but were they took casualties and were forced to withdraw in both cases. This is interesting, as it seems to imply that Brazhkivka is contested, or at least that Ukraine has forces very close to this town. Russia captured this town on April 20th. Russia is still trying to clear out the wooded areas north of Dolyna and attempted to assault the town (8), but the attack failed. Russia pushed into the north west outskirts of Bohorodychne and are trying to take a foothold within the town (9), and heavy fighting continues. The Russians are actively deploying Electronic Warfare in the area around Bohorodychne in an effort to counter the Ukrainian use of drones (10). Meanwhile, they are launching artillery, mortars, and grenades into the town while trying to attack it from across the Siverskyi Donets river from the north (11).

The Sievierodonetsk area: Russia is firing artillery pretty much everywhere in this area. I marked some of the heavier concentrations of fire I could locate, but imagine artillery markers on every single settlement and that's probably closer to accurate. I am not going to talk about the fighting going on within the city, as it is brutal street fighting combined with intense artillery fire and granularity of the fighting is beyond the scope of my updates or my map. However, there is a video of fighting in the city. Russia controls Metolkine and tried to push west and south towards the south eastern section of the city, but the attack was repelled (12). Russians are working on clearing the wooded areas around the airport (13). South of the city, Russia tried to push through the northern part of Toshkivka, but without success (14). They are also pushing west from Orikhove, a town they captured on May 17th, but they made very little progress and reportedly still haven't left the outskirts of the town (15). There is still heavy fighting going on in Zolote (16), Komyshuvakha (17) and Vrubivka (18). There are rumors that the Ukrainian defenses around Vrubivka may be the weakest of these three postions, but I guess we will see how this unfolds going forward. Russian attacks were repelled from Mykolaivka (19) and Berestove (20), and I have seen reports of heavy Russian losses in these two areas. In fact, apparently the Russians have lost so many men in this general area (from Komyshuvakha to Berestove) that they are having to reconstitute them into new BTGs. Russian performed probing attacks near Nova Kamyanka, but were driven off by Ukrainian defenders (21).

In the Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia areas everything is getting hit by artillery, and there are ongoing grinding fights around Novoluhanske which I have noted almost daily for quite a while. Not enough action to take the time to make an image (which takes me about 20 minutes btw). In Avdiivka there was an enormous explosion at the chemical plant.

THe Kherson/Mykolaiv area: Yesterday Ukraine pushed an attack south of Mykolaiv, and judging by the artillery markers I imagine the fight may sitll be ongoing (22). I have seen reports that Ukraine is pushing in the general direction of Snihurivka, but they are not attacking the town itself. Maybe think of it more as clearing the space the space on the way to the settlement. Ukraine launched attacks towards Kyselivka (24) and Soldatske (25), but I do not have information on the current status of the fighting. There is talk that Ukraine launched a counter attack towards Oleksanrivka (26), but I also have sources claiming it was Russia who launched the attack in that area. I hafve labelled it as a Russian attack, but I could be wrong. Or perhaps they are both attacking simultaneously.

Other notes: Today Ukraine stated that more than 10,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed in combat, up from the 3500 they had stated around 60 days ago. Which maps to around 100 dead per day. This number sounds about right, I kinda think the number is higher. In recent days Ukraine has stated it might be closer to 200,300 or even 400 per day due to the increase in intensity in the Sievierodonetsk city and industrial area. Which, to me, the higher end of that estimate seems more accurate. Meanwhile, Russia is suffering between 300 and 500 casualties per day. At the same time, Ukraine has more available men than equipment to fight with. This hasn been true the entire war. Ukraine also doesn't have sufficient training standards across the board for their soldiers. Some are very well trained, and others are not. As a result, in some areas of the battlefield Ukrainian soldiers have done heroic work, and in other areas they unfortunately have not done as well. I hope both of these issues, equipment and training, can be addressed in the near future. And perhaps you can help by going to ytour government official and asking them to send more military aid to Ukraine.



