My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to look at the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: Nothing much has changed. There is combat along the points of contact (1,2,3,5), Russia used MLRS to lay more mines around Peremoha and Shestakove (4). I changed the graphic to have yellow outlines around the areas Russia is shooting mines into. Russia launched an attack out of Rubizhne and there is ongoing fighting (6). Everything is more or less status quo.

The Izyum area: Ukraine is steadily moving north and east towards Izyum (7a,7b,7c).

Zooming in a little, while I don't see any sort of official confirmation, it seems clear that Russia captured Mazanivka because they are now moving towards Krasnopillya from the west (8). I mentioned yesterday that Mazanivka was a weak point in the Ukrainian defensive line. 

Russia is also attacking Dolyna from the north (9). Dolyna and Krasnopillya are right next to each other, and you can more or less consider them one town. 

Meanwhile, Russia captured Bohorodychne (10) and are now moving towards Dolyna from the east (11) and towards Tetyanivka from the west (12). As you can see, Dolyna and Kranopillya are in a bit of a bind as they have Russian forces moving on them from the west, north, and east. However, Ukraine has space to provide defense to the east, so the postion may not be as dire as it first appears. 

As you can see, the Russian claims to have captured Tetyanivka (13) were completely unfounded as they are now raining a lot of artillery into the town. This is the typical Russian approach. First, perform a frontal attack, if that fails try it again. If that fails, fire lots of artillery.

Russians are massing forces near Staryi Karavan to attack towards Raihorodok (14) and near Yampil to attack towards Siversk (15). 

The Severodonetsk area: There is ongoing combat in the city, and that fighting is beyond the scope of my updates so I will not say more. More importantly, Russian forces have pushed through the airport area to the river and cut Borivske off from the rest of Severodonetsk. They tried to storm Borivske today (17), but were repelled. 

Zooming in on the Popasna area, there is ongoing fighting in Ustynivka (18), Toshkivka (19), and Zolote (20,21). The Russians are trying to push north through Vrubivka (22,23), and they claim to have captured the town. They are probably lying. Their goal in this area is to push towards Novoivanivka (*). From here, they would force Ukraine to abandon Zolote and Hirske, which Russia has realized they cannot easily capture from the front. You can see Russia has basically abandoned their attempt to fight through Komyshuvakha as well, as they are attempting to move those forces north. Speaking of which, Ukrainian artillery severely wounded the head of the Kadyrovite medical unit, Captain Israil Mikaev just north of Komyshuvakha. He suffered head trauma and was evacuated from the area.

Russian forces are trying to fight the low ground just east of Berestove (24) but every time they try to charge up the hill they take a lot of casualties and are forced back down the hill. It is a pretty bad situation for the Russians in this area. The Wagner Group is still attacking Pokrovske (25a,25b) without much success, but they took a little bit of ground attacking Vidrodzhennya to the south (26). 

I have no news from the Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia areas. Just lots and lots of artillery.

The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: There is a lot of talk about a Ukrainian offensive going on in this area, and I am not going to sit here and say there isn't one going on. There very well could be. I just want to say a few things about what I observe. First, today Ukraine announced that they spotted Russians placing MLRS in Doslidne (29a) and Tomyna Balka (29b). I could not find information on the type of MLRS these are. If they are grad systems, that would imply the front line might be 5km or so north of Doslidne. If these are Uragan, that would imply the front line could be 10-15km north. well, the distance from Doslidne to Tavrijske is 13km. Ukraine today calimed they are fighting somewhere along the line between Tavrijske and Tomyna Balka. On my map, I have the front line approximately 1km forward from Tavrijske. So, if there were fighting in that location it would satisfy the conditions of both of these Ukrainian claims. 

Moving on, Ukraine claims Russia put tube artillery (aka howitzers) in Stanislav (30). The effective range of the 152 is about 17km. The distance from Tavrijske to Stanislav is 17km. Again, satisfying the conditions of the Ukrainian claims.

Next, I have marked confirmed locations of Russian artillery. They are focused around positions known to be held by Ukrainian forces, as opposed to ones closer to the Russian lines. It is very likely that I have not marked the majority of Russian artillery fire, so take this part with a grain of salt. However, this pattern is true if you go back in time a few days.

Now, the biggest questionmark for me is the fire locations around the Kostromka and Bruskynske area (28). There is a very good chance this fire is caused by fighting. Probably artillery, perhaps air strikes or burning vehicles. However, I do not know the causes. 

If this is Ukrainian artillery fire, it would seem to suggest Russia controls this area. If it is Russian artillery fire, it seems to suggest Ukrainians are pushing south. This area is a big questionmark, and I have no real evidence to say what is going on beyond what I have already described.

Finally, today the Ukrainians destroyed an ammunitiion warehouse in Nova Kakhovka (27).