My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate. 

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, a special mention. Russia is attacking the small border town of Bachivsk. It is about 110km north of Sumy. There is an ongoing firefight supported by artillery both sides.

The Kharkiv area: Russia is still attacking around Rubizhne (1). I have the town listed as a "no man's land", meaning neither Ukraine nor Russia control the town.

The Izyum area: Russia is attacking west and south from Mazanivka (2). Ukraine appears to be putting up stiff resistance in both cases, and fighting is taking place 2-3km west of Krasnopillya.

Russia tried to storm Dolyna today, but they were repelled. I am still not sure if the town remains in Ukrainian hands or if it is contested. Either way, Russia does not control the town as of yet.

I am not sure what is going on in Bohorodychne. I did not see any news on the town, so Russia may control it. I am leaving the town listed as contested until I find more information.

Russia is continually pounding the towns of Tetyanivka and Pryshyb with artillery, thus confirming that the Russians had blatantly lied when they had claimed to have captured these two towns.


The Severodonetsk area: Russia appears to have total control over downtown Severodonetsk, and they are pushing into the eastern section of the industrial areas.

South of the city, there is fierce fighting going on around Borivske (5) and Russia is trying to push north towards Ustynivka from Toshkivka (6). It seems that Russia finally has control over Toshkivka after 50+ days of fighting. 

Zooming in a bit, Russia is also pushing north east from Toshkivka towards Myrna Dolyna (7) and west towards Hirske (8). There is heavy fighting going on in each case. Russia is trying to close in around Zolote by pushing west from Orikhove (9) and east towards Zolote-3 (11) but Ukrainian defenses are holding up. These two areas are very hot and have a lot of heavy fighting. Russia is also pushing smaller forces towards Zolote itself (10) but these attacks are not as strong. 

Russia tried to attack towards Mykolaivka and were repelled (12) and today they made multiple attempts to push up the hill towards Berestove (13) but each attempt failed.

There is heavy fighting near Pokrovske (14a,14b), but the Ukrainian defenders are holding strong. A bit further south, the Russians are trying to push into Vershyna (15), and I am unsure of the current state of the battle. Yesterday I heard they are stuck in the trench system, but today I heard ambiguous statements about fighting in the town. Those statements could be interpreted as being "near" the town, meaning in the trenches still, but I am not positive on that. Further south, Russians are pushing towards Semyhirja (16) and I have the same sort of ambiguous statements regarding fighting in the trenches or within the town. I will assume fighting is still in the trenches until I have clarification.


South of Donetsk on the Zaporizhzhia front there is news and confirmation of a Ukrainian counter attack south from Vuhledar (17). They appear to have captured Shevchenko, a town that I thought was under Russian control but was infact a gray zone. Ukrainians moved in, and Russians pushed a recon unit into the town to check out what was going on (18). The recon unit was repulsed, and now there may be a battle brewing for Yehorivka, which is on the road that feeds supplies to the Russian forces in Pavlivka just north.

The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: There is ongoing fighting around Snihurivka (19). More interestingly, I found confirmation that Ukraine captured Soldatske (21), Pravdyne (22), and Oleksandrivka (23). There is still fighting going on towards Kyselivka (20). Also, take note of the very, very large amount of artillery Russia has deployed in this area today. Typically, when Russia is preparing to withdraw forces from an area they lead off by substantially increasing the amount of artillery they fire. They will then remove forces very slowly over a period of time, perhaps 10-20 days. This happened around Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv, and Izyum. In each case, it took seven days, minimum, before we saw forces that took part in those attacks redeployed to another part of the battlefield. I am not saying Russia is withdrawing from the Mykolaiv or Kryvyi Rih areas, but if you see continued reports of substantial increases in Russian shelling it could point towards that sort of maneuver. And to state this plainly, I do not think Russia will withdraw from Kherson. They would withdraw to Kherson.