My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to look at the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

From here on out I am going to mark ongoing fighting that is otherwise not very noteworthy with a simple AK74 icon and not mention it in the notes.

First, the Kharkiv area: Not much happened today. Russians tried to push a recon unit out of Kochubeivka (1), but it was met with heavy resistance and they retreated back home. There is still fighting near Rubizhne (2), but I now believe the town is in Ukrainian control so I have marked it blue.

The Izyum area: Russia is closing in on Krasnopilla (3a,3b), but fighting is still on the outskirts of town. Russia has penetrated the defenses of Dolyna (4) and the town is contested. These two towns are very close together, less than 1km apart, so you can think of them as more or less one location.

Russia is trying to re-establish control of Bohorodychne (5) but the Ukrainian counter attack (6) appears to be pushing deeper into the town and gaining a better foothold.

A brief interlude: Ukrainians fire a rocket pod meant for aircraft from a trailer.

The Severodonetsk area: Fighting in the city is intense, and there are reports that Russia is wrapping behind the industrial area to take control of some areas of land between Severodonetsk and Lysychansk. These claims are supported by video of Ukrainian fighters in Lysychansk engaging Russian forces from across the river.

South of the city, Russia is trying to storm Borivske (6) without success.

The Popasna area: Russia tried to push through the Zolote defenses today (7) but were defeated and repulsed. The most intense fighting in the Zolote areas are to the east and west of the town, as denoted by the AK74 icons.

Over the past few days I have seen increasing reports that Ukraine has pushed all the way to Nyrkove (8). There was an ambiguous message about this today in the Ukrainian MOD. I have heard from Russian sources that Ukraine pushed to this town from Mykolaivka, which would mean that Russian offensive push totally failed. I have seen Ukrainian sources claim their forces instead came from the north, as implied by my arrow. I have not marked Ukrainian gains in this area on the map because I am unsure how to map it at the moment.

Russian forces tried to attack up the hill into Berestove again today (9), and they were again beaten back down the hill. A few km to the west it appears Ukraine captured Vasylivka (11) while the Russians helplessly flailed in their attempt to drive Ukrainians out of the town (10). If it is true that Ukraine has pushed up to Nyrkove and they now control Vasylivka then these Russian forces in Berestove are in deep trouble. They will be surrounded by Ukrainian forces, and the Ukrainian forces will have the high ground in every direction.

Russian mercinary soldiers are attack Pokrovske (12a,12b). This town is a crucial line of defense for Bakmut, which is only a few km to the west (the purple lines). A bit furhter south, Russian merinary soldiers are attacking Vershyna. The mercinaries claim to have captured the town, but I think it is more likely that the town is contested. South of here, Russian forces are pushing north from Dolomitne and Novoluhanske to attack Semyhirja (14), but they were repelled. 

Yesterday a Russian soldier decided to post a picture of himself holding a mortar round in front of a giant pile of boxes of mortar rounds. Here is the picture. 


Ukrainians figured out this was in the ExpoDonbas Exhibition Center in Donetsk city, and today they fired a few artillery shells into the building to see what would happen. Here is the result.

The Kherson area: There is ongoing fighting near Snihurivka (15). Near Pershotravneve (16) and Zamyanka (17) there were a lot of reports of fire reported by NASA's Fire Information for Resource Management System. This amount of fire suggests it could either be a large amount of artillery, a large battle, or a grass fire. Given that Ukraine doesn't have the ability to amass the amount of artillery to start fires this large and the location of the events, these could be signs that the front line is much closer to Kherson. I will need more evidence to move the line, though. I assume there is still fighting going on around Kyselivka (18) and Stanislav (19), but perhaps Ukraine has moved on already? Maybe the artillery reports in these areas are actually Russian artillery firing upon Ukrainian positions instead? I do not have much reliable information in the Kherson area, so I am trying to remain conservative in my assessment of the situation.


The Kherson area: There is ongoing fighting near Snihurivka (15). 

Near Pershotravneve (16) and Zamyanka (17) there were a lot of reports of fire reported by NASA's Fire Information for Resource Management System.

This amount of fire suggests it could either be a large amount of artillery, a large battle, or a grass fire. Given that Ukraine doesn't have the ability to amass the amount of artillery needed to start fires this large and the location of the events...

these could be signs that the front line is much closer to Kherson. I will need more evidence to move the line, though. 

Somewhere near Kherson, Ukraine destroyed a Msta self propelled howitzer.

I assume there is still fighting going on around Kyselivka (18) and Stanislav (19), but perhaps Ukraine has moved on already? Maybe the artillery reports in these areas are actually Russian artillery firing upon Ukrainian positions instead?

I do not have much reliable information in the Kherson area, so I am trying to remain conservative in my assessment of the situation.

This morning, Ukrainian forces hit a Russian tugboat, Vasily Bekh, with a Harpoon missile. The boat was carrying a TOR anti aircraft system to Snake Island, and it eventually sank from the damage inflicted.

In Cheboksary, Russia (600km east of Moscow), two young men decided to express their true feelings for the letter Z.