My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: Russia is launching another offensive in the Kharkiv area. They are attacking Dementiivka (1), Pytomnyk (2), and south from Lyptsi (3). I am not sure how far south they have made it from Lyptsi. I have marked the front line as being around Borshchova, but it is possible it is futher south closer to Ruski Tyshky. Rubizhne (4) remains an unknown, and could still be a no-man's land as both Russians and Ukrainians claim to control the general area, if not the town outright. My gut tells me the fighting is going on closer to Verknii Saltiv, which is just a few km south of Rubizhne.

Still the Kharkiv area, but a bit further south: Russians claim Ukrainian forces have pushed north to the outskirts of Martove (5). I am not sure who controls Lebyazhe and the surrounding area (6). Ukrainians reportedly captured this area in April, and I haven't seen news from there since. However, Russians now claim to control the area. Perhaps they do. For now I have marked the area purple for unknown.

I have heard that Hrakove is contested (7a,7b) with control passing back and forth between Ukrainians and Russians. As I understand it, Russia used the Hrakove as a stopgap base back when Ukraine was originally pushing out from Kharkiv back in early April. Ukraine captured Chuhuiv and Malynivka around April 7th, and then Lebyazhe and Bazaliivka around April 17th. Russian Forces in Hrakove served to bottle up this Ukrainian advance, it it wasn't until May 8th that Ukraine moved up and captured Korobochkyne. Now we know that Ivanivka (8) in the south is a major Russian base of operations, and it is heavily fortified. I am not sure exactly when or how Hrakove became contested, but I have marked it purple.

Ukraine appears to be building forces around Mospanove (9) and Bairak (10), perhaps in preparation for an attack east into Ivanivka and Balakliya respectively. They also seem to be building forces in Husarivka, Pervomaiske, Pryshyb, and Andriivka down there around Bairak. Russia has publicly expressed their worry of these forces, spreading propaganda about various evil acts these forces are supposed to have been performing, and heavily bombing the area. Look at Andriivka today, that is a lot fo artillery. They have been doing that sort of artillery attack on each of the towns in this area.

I forgot to put the number 11 on a map, so I am going to post this video of things blowing up and call it number 11 so I don't have to go back and edit everything.

The Izyum area: Russia is pushing hard to capture Krasnopillya (12a,12b) and Dolyna (13). The defenses around Krasnopillya are holding strong, and Dolyna is reportedly contested. Russia is pushing to recapture Bohorodychne (14) and Ukraine is trying to push Russia out of the town (15). The town is contested and has heavy fighting.

Severodonetsk: Posting an image of the city is going out on a limb because analyzing urban combat in this format is borderline impossible. Russia is trying to push towards the south of the industrial area with unknown success (16). Russia claims to have captured that entire area between the industrial area and Lysychansk, which I do not believe at all. It is almost certainly propaganda. Russia is pushing the industrial area from the north west (17) and the east (18). 

Russia is pushing into Metolkine, and the town is either contested or in Russian control. I have it marked as contested. The Ukrainian defense in this area has been amazing and has gone well beyond what anyone could have reasonably expected.

Russia is trying to push into Syrotyne (20), but their attacks have been mostly repelled. 

Russia has been firing artillery into Voronove for several days in a row. In the past I marked this town as in Russian control, but now I feel compelled to mark it as Ukrainian. I cannot imagine why Russia would fire gigantic salvos of artillery into a town that they controlled. I have no other evidence of Ukrainians controlling this area.

Russia is trying to push into Borivske but their attempts have failed to date (21).

Note that Russia is heavily bombarding Bila Hora and the southern side of Lysychansk.

The Popasna area: Russia claims to have cleared Toshkivka of Ukrainian forces and tried to push north into Ustynivka with all of their might (22). They were repelled.

Now getting into the normal every day Russian failed attack portion of the update. Russia tried to attack Hirske from Orikhove and failed (23). They tried to attack Zolote from Orikhove and failed (24). They tried to attack Zolote from the south and failed (25). They tried to attack Mykolaivka from Vrubivka and failed (26). They tried to attack Mykolaivka from Nyrkove and failed (27). They tried to attack Berestove and failed (29). They tried to attack Pokrovske and failed (30a,30b).

I still do not know if Ukraine controls the area north of Nyrkove, but Russian sources keep saying they do so I marked it thusly on the map (28).

Russian mercenaries are trying to attack Vershyna (31), and they claim to have "captured" it, but then they fired a giant amount of artillery at the town. It seems the reality is that they are stuck in the trench line and getting wiped out.

Meanwhile, Russians are trying to push towards Kodema, but are stuck fighting through trenches (32).

The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: There is ongoing fighting around Snihurivka (33) and Kyselivka (34). Both of these areas are heavily fortified by Russian forces so the battles could take a substantial period of time, not unlike the battles being waged around the Zolote area.

Today Russia attacked and captured the newly liberated town of Pravdyne (35) then turned and began to attack the newly liberated Soldatske (36).

Meanwhile, Ukraine is attacking Shyroka Balka (37) and Stanislav (38).