My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: Yesterday, Russia captured Hrakove (1) and then pushed down the road to Rtyshchivka (2). Everything else in this area is status quo.

The Izyum area: Russia is firing artillery just about everywhere, especially along the Siverskyi Donets river around Protopopivka, Petrivske, and Hrushuvakha.

Russia is continuously attacking and shelling Krasnipillya (3) and Dolyna (4), but the Ukrainian defense is holding on for the moment.

Russia is trying to reestablish control over Bohorodychne (5) but the Ukrainian defenders repelled their attack.

Notice that Ukraine is firing artillery into Izyum and also, interestingly, Dovhenke. 

The Severodonetsk area: The combat in the city is intense and brutal urban combat, the specifics of which go beyond the scope of this map. Around the city, though, is a bit of a mess.

Russia is trying to use their foothold over Metolkine to attack Syrotyne (6) and Voronove (7). Both attacks were repelled. It is interesting that they are attacking Voronove from this angle, as opposed from the direction of Borivske.

South of the city, the Ukrainian defense has crumbled. Russia is attacking Bila Hora from Toshkivka (8a). They attacked Myrna Dolyna from Toshkivka (9) and after capturing the town they  split their forces and some pushed north to attack Bila Hora from the west (8b) and the rest pushed west to capture Pidlisne (10). Later on, Ukraine launched a counter attack into Pidlisne (11) and the town is now contested.

Russia also pushed forces south from Toshkivka and Myrna Dolyna to attack Hirske from the flank (12), and they captured a significant portion of the town. Russia also sustained their regular attacks toward Hirske from Orikove (13) and towards Zolote from the south (14).

As a result of this pressure, Ukraine has been forced to withdraw as many forces as they could from Zolote and Hirske (15) while a rear guard screens their retreat. 

Russia tried to push north from Komyshuvakha to shut off the escape route from Zolote, but their advance was stopped and repelled (16). Russia tried pushing up through Mykolaivka (17) and the fighting is ongoing.

So, this is all a bit of a disaster for Ukraine. This entire defensive line collapsed after they lost Toshkivka. I was hoping Ukraine would be able to contain the Russian forces around Toshkivka using their reserves, or at least only allow them to push to Myrna Dolyna. However, it didn't work out that way. We know the defense couldn't last forever, but I was hoping it wouldn't end like this.

The mercenaries Russia hired to fight for them are still attacking Pokrovske (18a,18b), trying to break through the defenses to get to Bakmut. However, the Ukrainian forces are repelling their attacks.

The Donetsk area: Russian mercenary forces are trying to attack Vershyna (19) and their conscripts are trying to attack Semyhirja (20) but in both cases they are stuck fighting along the trench line.

Note the heavy Ukrainian artillery fire around Avdiivka.

The Hulyaipole/Pavlivka area: The other day Ukrainian forces tried to flank Pavlivka by pushed towards Shevhenko. Today, Ukraine captured Pavlivka (21) and are now pushing south towards Yehorivka.

Russia tried to attack Malynivka from Novozlatopil, but they suffered very high casualties and were forced to retreat (22).

There are rumors that Ukraine is pushing south from Hulyaipole (23). I have seen no evidence to back up this claim, but I figured I would mark it as a topic of conversation.

The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: Today, Ukraine reportedly captured Kyselivka (24). If this is true, this is a major victory for Ukraine. I need more evidence to confirm this, but a number of reputable sources have reported on this already.

There are ongoing Ukrainian attacks near Shyroka Balka (25) and Stanislav (26).

All in all, today was a bad day for Ukraine. Russia broke a big hole through the Donbas defensive line and captured several extremely important towns and forcing a withdrawal of Ukrainian forces from their best defensive positions. It is unknown how successful this withdrawal will be, or how many might be lost trying to pull out to safety in such a dangerous situation. However, there is some positivity elsewhere in the battlespace. They captured a very important town near Kherson, and made some minor gains south of Donetsk. 