My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

The Kharkiv area has not had much news recently. There are small positional fights, but that has become status quo.

The Izyum area: Russia is firing artillery everywhere along the front. Beyond that, there is fighting going on around Krasnopillya (1) and Dolyna (2). Both towns are contested. Russia appears to have more control over Dolyna than Krasnopillya, but they also appear to be taking much more casualties in Dolyna. Russia tried to capture Bohorodychne (3), but they were repelled. I am curious how much control Ukraine has over this town. I do not know if the fighting is going on in the outskirts, or if it is actually going on within the town itself. Either way, Russia is following their normal tactics: Attack, if that fails attack again. If that fails maybe attack one more time. And if that fails just shoot loads of artillery. We're in the artillery phase. 

The Severodonetsk area: Russia is throwing everything they have at capturing this entire area. Within the city, Russia is pushing hard to capture the industrial district (4), and there is ongoing fighting. There is ongoing fighting in Syrotne (5), and their assault was repelled in Borivske (6). I saw one Russian report today that suggested Russian casualties in Borivske were considered embarassing, for whatever that is worth.

Russia captured Bila Hora (8), Hirske (9), Zolote (10), Novoivanivka (11), Rai-Oleksandrivka (12), Loskutivka (13), Mykolaivka (16,17) and they are assaulting the industrial areas in southern Lysychansk (14,15). It is official, the pocket was lost. It is unknown how many Ukrainians were killed or captured as a result of this loss.

As a result of these losses, it is reported that Ukraine is beginning to pull forces out of Lysychansk (7).

Russia is still trying to push up the hill into Berestove (18). The Russian terrorist mercenaries are attacking Pokrovske (19a,19b) and I have heard rumors that the town defenses might be weakening.

Russian mercenaries more or less captured Klynove (20) and Ukraine has pushed in a counter attack to try to take it back (21). Fighting is ongoing.

Russian mercenaries tried to assault Vershyna (22), but they were repelled.

Russian forces are trying to assault the Vuhlehirska Tes power plant, and fighting is ongoing (23). There is very heavy fighting around Semyhirja (24) and Kodema (25).

The areas around Donetsk, Pavlivka, Hulyaipole, Kherson, and Mykolaiv are more or less the same as over the past few days. Today Russia launched a few very small scale attacks to the east of Hulyaipole, and the most interesting news that came out of that was the revelation that Ukraine controls the town of Neskuchne. I know Ukraine has had forces in this area for a long time, but all of the news I had seen hinted at it being a gray area. It now appears to be Ukrainian. It might still be a gray area, though.

Here is a video of Ukraine firing Tochka-U ballistic missiles.

Here is a video of Ukrainian soldiers destroying a Russian tank with a javelin. Pay attention to the left of the screen, you can see the infantry sneaking up on the tank.

Ukrainian soldiers require all the equipment they can get. In particular, they need armor. All sorts of armor. Tanks, armored personnel carriers, and infantry fighting vehicles get all of the news headlines, but they also need helmets and body armor. Ukraine Aid Operations is collecting money that will be spent buying helmets and body armor. A helmet costs €363 and body armor costs €187. A full body kit costs €550. You can donate any amount of money, $1, $10, €25, €1000. Every bit helps. https://donorbox.org/ukraine-aid-operations-helmets-and-body-armour-fundraiser