My daily update!  #ukrdailyupdate

Today is a bit light on news so I am adding fun videos.

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: It is not well pictured on this image, but Ukraine repelled a Russian attack into Udy (1). There were also ambiguous reports of Russia attacking Pytomnyk (2) and Verkhnii Saltiv (3). I believe these attacks were overnight, as I found them in the morning report. Beyond that, I have nothing.

The Izyum area: Russia is firing artillery everywhere. Ukraine is targeting the main supply roads into Izyum with their artillery. And probably shooting other areas as well, I just don't have information on those targets. Apparently Ukraine still controls Mazanivka because they reportedly repelled an attack there today (4). I thought they lost this town a while ago, and I had only heard of fighting in the wooded areas around the town. In fact, I am not sure I believe they control the town, but let's roll with it I guess. Ukraine also repelled attacks on Krasnopillya (5), Dolyna (6), and Bohorodychne (7).

The Severodonetsk area: Russia now has complete control over Severodonetsk (8), Syrotyne (9,10), Voronove (11), and Borivske (12). All of these areas were entirely abandoned by Ukrainian forces, and are now under total control of the Russian forces.

Russians are now shifting their focus to Lysychansk, and pushing hard to fully control Bila Hora (13). I wrongly said they captured this town the other day, although to be fair I am not sure I was off by much. There is heavy fighting going on in the southern outskirts of Lysychansk around the Gelatin and Rubber factories (14).

In addition to this, Russia captured Vovchoyarivka yesterday and pushed from there into the outskirts of Verkhnokamyanka today (15). Ukraine has launched a counter attack in this area to push Russia away from this town, with limited success (16). 

Russia is bombarding every road in this area with artillery, as I have marked with the artillery markers.

Before I move on from this area, about 50km north of Lysychansk, in Svatove, Ukraine hit a Russian warehouse with a missile. I have heard it was a Tochka-U, but some people are speculating it could be HIMARS. https://twitter.com/EuromaidanPress/status/1540709476956655616?s=20&t=PQfbRSOn422oW8TFNQOlew

Here is that location on the map:

The Bakhmut area: Ukraine repelled an attack on Pokrovske from the north east (17), which seems like it might be the weaker attack on the town. From what I understand, the attack from the east (18) is a bit stronger, but Ukrainian defenses are holding on. This town is an extremely important defensive anchor for the Ukrainian line. A bit further south, Russia is slowly capturing ground in the direction of Vershyna (19). This town is not considered as important as Pokrovske because the town behind it, Zaitseve, is a good defensive position. Not to be confused with the other Zaitseve a few km to the south which is also pretty important. I wish I were kidding, I'm not. There is ongoing heavy fighting around Semyhirya (20) and Kodema (21) without much change otherwise. 

The South Donetsk area: Russia is making a more concerted effort to attack Marinka in recent days, and Ukraine repelled another attack there today (22). Speaking of Marinka, here is a video of a Ukrainian recon unit firing shells into Russian infantry. Marinka looks like a hellish place to be right now.

Yesterday there were reports that Ukraine captured Yehorivka, Shevchenko, and Novomaiorske, but I did not mark them on my map because there wasn't any confirmation. Today, I saw a report of a Russian counter attack into Yehorivka (23) and Novomaiorske (24). These reports were unconfirmed, and I mark these positions on my map with a lump of salt. It is entirely possible Russia still controls all of these areas, I am skeptical.

Speaking of skeptical, The Kherson/Mykolaiv area: The past few days have offered tantilizing news about Vysokopillya. Yesterday there was news (from both Russian and Ukrainian sources) that Russian forces pulled out of the town. Today there is news of Russia attacking the town from Potomkyne (26). Did Ukraine capture the town (25)? I really don't know. I have marked it that way for now, but you should be skeptical. Why? Because news of Ukraine capturing Kyselivka (27) appear to be fabricated. I see zero evidence backing the claim that they control the town, and I see pretty solid evidence that Russia does. The day Ukraine declared the capture, I posted that it was likely disinformation, and I think at this point it is obvious that it was.

Now, for a list of videos I found interesting today. First, a Ukrainian mortar team doing their thing.

Have you ever wondered what it is like to be on the receiving end of a Ukrainian ambush? This Russian filmed it for you.

Ukrainian special operations forces helped dial in artillery fire on a Russian position, and it did some serious damage.

The Russian Legion driving out to cleanse Ukraine of Putinists and Rashists.

Here are the results of Russian terrorism. A Russian strike on civilian infrastructure for absolutely no reason whatsoever. 

Finally, a video that requires no description.