My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

The most interesting things that happened today occurred near Kryvyi Rih.

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: Russia shelled the cityy of Kharkiv today, striking a hospital among other things. They are not aiming at military targets, they are spreading terrorism.

In terms of military targets, Russia tried to attack Dementiivka today (1), but were repelled. Beyond this, the situation is more or less status quo in the area. That is to say, Russia is shelling both military and civilian infrastructure without any care and there is ongoing skirmishing around Rubizhne.

The Izyum area: Russia is firing artillery everywhere along the line, and in locations behind the front line they would like to attack in the near future, such as Adamivka and Kreshtyshche (the two towns north west of Slovyansk covered in artillery markers). 

Today Russia claimed to have twarted a Ukrainian attempt to cross a pontoon bridge near Ivanivka (2). I do not see much evidence of this beyond the mere claim, but I figured I would bring it up.

The Ukrainian defensive line in this area appears to have stabilized, and Russian attacks were repelled near Dibrovne (3), Mazanivka (4), Krasnopillya (5), Dolyna (6), and Bohorodychne (7). Russia has captured no ground in this area in the past week and a half, and have in fact lost ground in several places.

The Lysychansk area: Ukrainian forces have stabilized the defensive line and pushed Russia out of several key areas, namely Vovchoyarivka (10) and Mykolaivka (12). Russia completed capturing Bilo Hora and is now pushing into the southern outskirts of Lysychansk (8) and they are attacking the Rubber plant (9). They are also trying to attacking Vovchoyarivka (11). In addition to all of this, there is ongoing fighting around Berestove, which I forgot to mark on the map, but it is the town immediately south west of Mykolaivka (12).

I have no particular news on the Bakhmut area, there is still fighting around Pokrovske, Klynove, Vershyna, the Vuhlehirska power plant, Semyhirya, and Kodema. But this is all ongoing fighting that I have taken note of in prior updates, and you can look back to those if you want more information.

Around the northern Donetsk area: Russia is firing artillery into every major town and road that leads into Avdiivka and Pisky.

In the southern Donetsk area: Russia launched an attack from Yehorivka into Pavlivka and suffered substantial losses (13). 
This shows that Russia does in fact control Yehorivka, at least for the moment. Russia also fired artillery into Shevchenko, but it is unclear if it was into the town itself or merely around the town so I am still unsure if Ukraine properly captured this town or not. Pavlivka is in fact firmly in Ukrainian control, though. Novomaiorske is still a question, and I think the lack of news hints at Russian control but I will leave it as Ukrainian along with a big grain of salt.

The Vysokopillya area (aka north of Kherson): There is an interesting narrative coming out of this little area. Two days ago it appeared Ukraine may have captured Vysokopillya as Russian forces reportedly withdrew. Yesterday, Russia attacked Vysokopillya from Potomkyne and were firmly repelled with significant losses. Apparently in that fighting Ukraine captured Potomkyne, because today Russia attacked Potomkyne and were stopped dead in their tracks by heavy Ukrainian artillery fire (14). Meanwhile, Russia claims that Ukraine attacked Olhyne from Vysokopillya (15) using combined armed tactics including Mi-8 helicopters. Russia claims this attack was repelled. So it appears at the end of today Ukraine holds both Vysokopillya and Potomkyne, and are looking to capture more.

The Mykolaiv area: Ukraine reportedly controls Barvinok (16) and is contesting Kyselivka (17). Take note of the heavy use of Russian artillery in this area. Why do you think Russia is using so much artillery on areas that they have no hope of attacking any time soon while they are losing ground to the north east around Vysokopillya? These areas are the furthest extent of the Russian logistics, so getting ammunition here is takes longer and costs more money.

Also, Russia fired a missile into this town here. 

What purpose does this serve? They hit a dirt road. Here is the video. Again, ask yourself, why is Russia firing missiles into this dirt road when they are losing ground around Vysokopillya? It is irrational. 

Finally, here is a Ukrainian with a Russian tank.