My daily update! Day 124 #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

Today Russia did a terrorist attack on a shopping mall full of people, many of whom were shopping for groceries. They fired rockets into the building, killing many. Bodies were torn to pieces, arms and legs torn off. The survivors were left inside of a dark, dusty hell of a building that was rapidly catching fire.

Soon the entire building was engulfed.



The Kharkiv area: Russia attempted to attack Dementiivka (1) and Pytomnyk (2). Both attacks failed. There are rumors that Ukraine controls Vesele, but I have not heard any information that Vesele has left Russian control.  

The Izyum area: Russia is firing artillery just about everywhere in this region. Even the areas that aren't marked are probably getting hit. In addition, Russia tried to storm Mazanivka (4), Dolyna (5) and Bohorodychne (6). Russia seems to be afriad to try to cross the Siverskyi Donets river, and instead they are pounding the Ukrainian side with artillery.

The Lysychansk area: Maping this area is difficult, and the map could change daily for a week or so as I build up more information about the exact locations of the battle lines. Generally speaking, though, Russia is firing upon every major road leading toe Lysychansk, although the northern road that runs between Siversk and Bilohorivka is suffering the least harassment due to the shape of the terrain. 

Ukrainian fighters in this area are occupying the high ground in this entire area, which gives them an advantage over the Russian attackers who are forced to fight up hill into entrenched positions. Ukraine is trying to force Russians to fight over the more built up urban environments around factories, where the Russian numerical advantage is minimized and the superior Ukrainian light infantry can shine. However, it is important to keep in mind that there is a huge disparity in combat effectiveness between Ukraine's highly skilled soldiers, who are some of the best in the world, and their lesser skilled soldiers.

In this area, the primary Russian pushes are into the factories in the southern outskirts of Lysychansk (7) and the refinery (9). The Russian attack north from Pidlisne (8) and towards Berestove (10) are of lesser importance and mainly serve to hold down Ukrainian forces.

The Bakhmut area: Russia was again repelled in their attempt to capture Klynove. I wish I had more information about this town, because a few days ago it seemed that Russia was on the verge of capturing it, and now it appears they may not control it at all. Or perhaps I am entirely mistaken. It is very hard to judge based on the information I have.

South of here, though, I have had to reaccess and reduce how much ground Russia controlled between Roty and Vershyna. I had heard that the Russian mercinaries had reached the trenchline near Vershyna (depicted by the blue dotted line), and then later that they had moved another 1km towards the town. This put them within 1km of the town itself. However, this turned out to be wrong, as it was only today that Russia captured the E40 intersection near the town (12). This means Russia hasn't even reached the main trench line yet.

The south Donetsk area: Russia tried to attack Marinka again today, but were repelled (13).

Russia tried to attack Shevchenko from Petrivka (14) and were repelled. This seems to show that Ukraine does in fact control Shevchenko.

