My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate
I am busy tonight so I will not be editing graphics, but I think the map is suitable enough in its raw form. 

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

I do not often post images of the Chernihiv and Sumy regions because not enough happens here to warrant making a graphics template, but since I am not using a template anyway I figured I should show this. Russia is building fortifications along the border crossings and regularly shelling the border towns. 

The situation around Kharkiv is status quo. Russia tried to capture Dementiivka (1) and is busy shelling just about everywhere else. 

South of Kharkiv, today Russia really went after Yavirske hitting it with jets, artillery, and helicopters. I am not sure why they went after this town with so many assets. A bit to the east of this town, in Borshchivka, Russia claimed to have been attacked my HIMARS. I do not know if this claim is true, but I figured I would mention it.

A bit further south, Russia assaulted Zalyman from Dovhalivka for the second day in a row (2). Here is closer look at this river crossing, it is a pretty good place to attempt a river crossing. There are forested areas on the Russian side with wide open areas on the Ukrainian side, which gives the attacker an advantage. The defender has less cover to hide behind.

Here is a zoomed in portion of what could be an old fording spot which has tree cover on both sides. This could be where Russia is attempting to cross.

Anyway, the Russian attempt to cross the river failed and Ukraine still controls the town.

To the Izyum area, Russia is focusing on capturing Mazanivka (3) and especially Dolyna (4). Their attacks today were repelled. I did not find news on Bohorodychne, which surprised me. Russia probably also attacked there.

The Lysychansk area, today I wasted time going through and highlighting all of the factories in this area. I did this because I thought fighting might revolve around these factories. Instead, it appears this whole area could be lost without much of a fight.

There are pretty strong hints that Russia crossed the Siverskyi Donets river somewhere around Pryvilla (5). I don't know if they would come from the west, north, or north east. Russia has been building forces in Kreminna for a while now, as I have noticed in past daily updates, and we expected Russia to attempt to cross somewhere in this general area. It is not confirmed that this crossing happened or was successful, but there are rumors that Russian forces are already inside of the town of Pryvilla. Take those rumors with a grain of salt.

Russian forces are attacking the rubber plant (6) and the gelatin plant (7). Earlier today there were reports that Russia was attacking the northern side of Vovchoyarivka (8) and by the end of the day reports that they were attacking Maloryazntseve (9). Furthermore, there is heavy fighting going on around the oil refinery (10). 

I do not believe Ukraine is making a strong effort to defend Lysychansk, and is instead slowly pulling back to positions around Bakhmut and Siversk. I wouldn't be surprised if Russia captures Lysychansk within 48 hours. This general withdrawal from the area is why I am not too skeptical about the claim that Russia crossed the river near Pryvillya. I am not sure such a crossing would be contested at this point.

The Lysychansk highway area, Russia is trying to capture the key intersection that connects Mykolaivka and the T1302 highway towards Lysychansk, but their attempt was thwarted prior to reaching the highway (11). They are making a similar attempt to reach the highway between Yakovlivka and Bilohorivka, which similarly failed (12).

The Bakhmut area, Ukraine still controls Soleday, Nova Kamyanka, Bakhmutske, Pokrovske, Klynove, Vershyna, and Zaitseve. All of these are very important defensive positions and Russia will attempt to either break through one of these towns or else go around these towns somewhere else. This area is of vital importance to the Ukrainian defense, and will be for some time.

Russia is trying to capture the Vuhlehirska Tes power plant, attacking from Myronivka (13) and Novoluhanske (14). I am not sure of the current situation of the next town over to the west, Semyhirya. I have not news from this area in two days, which makes me think Russia may have captured it. But I have not seen confirmation of a capture. However, Russia is attacking the next town over to the west, Kodema (15), and it is currently contested.

The south Donetsk area, Russia tried to assault Pavlivka today, and were repelled (16). Russians claimed to have recaptured Shevchenko and Novomaiorske today (which is actually the first time I had seen Russians admit Novomaiorske was taken by Ukraine), but I have left them under Ukrainian control for the moment because I do not trust Russian claims without verification.



