My daily update! #ukrdailyupdate

If you would like to view the map, here is the link: https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1eBdC3XtGg1_43DuLfyl-T4nz2dfrXPnj&usp=sharing

First, the Kharkiv area: Russia is making a concerted effort to capture Dementiivka. Their propagandists have lied and claimed they have captured it several times over the past few days. Today Ukraine repelled two distinct attacks into Dementiivka. One, I believe, came from the general Shopyne direction (2). This occurred earlier in the day. The second came from the Kochubeivka direction (1) and occurred later in the day. The second attack was weaker than the first. Other than this, the sitation around Kharkiv is more or less status quo. There is heavy shelling, especially closer to the river near Verknii Saltiv (A) and Staryi Saltiv (B). Verknii Saltiv was hit by air strikes today. 

South East of Kharkiv and North west of Izyum, today Russian propagandists claimed to have stopped a Ukrainian advance across the river in Zalyman (D). Russia had attacking Zalyman several times over the past few days, and each attack was repelled by Ukrainian defenders. This story is likely an attempt to save face due to these consistent failures. However, the video evidence they posted to support their claim came from when Ukraine tried to attack towards Izyum on May 15-16 (E). 

The Izyum area: Russia is continuing their attacks on Mazanivka (3), Dolyna (4), and Bohorodychne (5). All of the attacks were repelled. Russia hit Tetynivka with an air strike (F).

The Lysychansk area: Ukraine is withdrawing their forces from Lysychansk, and the city will likely be lost within a few days. Russia probably crossed the Siverskyi Donets river north or west of Pryvillya, and they are now attacking the mine south of the town (6).

There are conflicting reports about the areas south of Lysychansk, some claim that the fighting has gone through the lower suburbs and others are claiming it is still further out on the outskirts. I have decided to draw this area conservatively, so I depict fighting near Bila Hora (7) and the Gelatin factory (8).

Russia is pushing towards the heart of the city, but fighting has not reached the streets yet (9). They are pushing towards the train tracks north of Maloryazantseve (10), they captured Topolivka (11), and they probably captured the Oil Refinery (12). I have decided to map the refinery conservatively, which is to say that Ukraine still controls a corner of the facility. My gut tells me Ukraine has lost this area completely, I am jsut staying conservative here.

Russia is pushing towards the T1302 highway from Mykolaivka (13) and near Yakovlivka (14), both attacks have thus far failed.

The Bakhmut area: Russia Mercenaries are trying to capture Pokrovske, but their attacks are being repelled with significant casualties (15). The mercenaries are also trying to push through the northern part of Klynove (16), but the area has a complex system of trenchlines that have bogged down the Russian mercenaries. This defensive line from Klynove up towards Pokrovske will be vitally important for the Ukrainian defense over the coming weeks and months.

Russian forces are trying to attack the Vuhlehirska power plant from both Myronivka (17) and Novoluhanske (18), but they are struggling to make ground and taking heavy casualties. I still do not know who control Semyhirya (G), which makes me believe it is likely Russia. I have it listed under Ukrainian control due to the lack of confirmation. There is heavy ongoing fighting around Kodema (19), which I believe is still contested.

The south Donetsk area: There is ongoing fighting around Pavlivka (20). The news coming out of this area is vague at best from Ukrainian sources, and overly confident from the Russians. The reality is likely that the town is contested, which is how I have mapped it.

The Velyka Novosilka area: Today Ukraine stated that Russia was firing artillery near Novoukrainske (H). This position is very close to known Russian controlled areas. Recently I have heard that Ukraine had attacked Stepove, but not with the intent on capturing the town but rather destroy Russian equipment. Perhaps Ukraine is getting close to the town again? Perhaps they have captured it? I do not know.

The Polohy area: Yesterday Ukraine stated Russia fired artillery at them near Inzhenerne (I). This implies that Ukraine may have captured Novokarlivka some time during the past week. Ukraine announced the capture of Bilohirya in the same sort of manner on June 24th, five days prior.

The Kryvyi Rih/Mykolaiv/Kherson area: Russia is attacking Vysokopillya in an effort to recapture the town (21). The town remains contested.

Ukraine is attacking Snihurivka (22) with unknown results. Ukraine is attacking Kyselivka (23) and Pravdyne (24). Some sources claim Ukraine has captured both of these areas, but I think it is more likely both are contested. Finally, Ukraine is attacking Stanislav (25), with unknown results.

Today, as a good will gesture, Russia got its ass kicked and abandoned Snake Island. Soon, as a good will gesture, they will leave all of Ukraine.